---
description: "Notes on Bluesky's verification"
title: "Bluesky's Domain Verification is Good, Actually"
---
One of a few features from Twitter that Bluesky users are interested in is identity verification -  the purpose that Twitter's "blue ticks" used to serve before they were corrupted like everything else on that site.  Currently, Bluesky allows that by letting the user prove ownership of (or authority to use) a domain, or subdomain, that matches their custom handle. Personally, I think this is an excellent system, allowing persistence of a web-wide identity, and letting users have a handle that can match their established website.

Many complain that implementing this is difficult. I'm not so convinced that it is; it's just new, and mentioning DNS puts people off. I'll cover some simple steps later - but for now, let's look at whether it's a good solution.

Certainly DNS is already widely used for identity verification. Besides its original purpose for host lookup (when you go to a website, DNS defines where that is, and it's also DNS that directs your email to the right server), DNS is also used to verify things ownership and authority for things like email sending and identity, or mapping ownership for services like [keybase](https://keybase.io). It's a well established pattern, that should be understood by anyone who manages network services in any way, whether they're a systems administrator, developer, or just a domain owner.

DNS also has the benefit that it works with simple labels that work well as handles - dotted strings like [parsingphase.dev](https://bsky.app/profile/parsingphase.dev) or [theatlantic.com](https://bsky.app/profile/). Even "default" handles like [whysharksmatter.bsky.social](https://bsky.app/profile/whysharksmatter.bsky.social) are just an extension of this pattern - and they illustrate two useful features of Bluesky's verification. First, they don't require every user to own their own domain name. Instead, by attaching the identity to the "bsky.social" domain, they allow the owners of that domain - Bluesky themselves - to provide the identity. Secondly, they don't actually use DNS directly as the verification mechanism. Instead, they use the second (and widely ignored) mechanism of web-based verification, hosting a plain-text file (to use the same example user) at [https://whysharksmatter.bsky.social/.well-known/atproto-did](https://whysharksmatter.bsky.social/.well-known/atproto-did) - a mechanism available to anyone who runs a website but doesn't want to get hands-on with DNS.

This idea of delegating identity makes domain-based verification much more useful. For a lot of people whose identity 
isn't closely mapped to a two-part hostname such as parsingphase.dev, they may be better served by association with a third party. One key example is that of US Senators or Representatives - they want to assert that they're associated with the organizations [senate.gov](https://senate.gov) or [house.gov](https://house.gov) respectively. So, for example, you can have Bernie Sanders assert that aspect of his identity with the handle [sanders.senate.gov](https://bsky.app/profile/sanders.senate.gov). 

For someone whose identity is primarily "professional" in a role tied to a larger organization, delegation to that organization may be ideal from both a technical and practical viewpoint. Journalists primarily linked to a specific media outlet might well be name.outlet.com. Musicians linked to a band might be name.band.com, or will likely have a domain of their own as a solo artist. Researchers might be linked to their university - name.university.edu - or their [ORCID](https://orcid.org/) ID (currently not a particularly beautiful format, but a useful example). Similarly, sites such as LinkedIn, or email providers, also link a network identity to a personal one, and could potentially add functionality to support DID hosting to existing account management.

For anyone who genuinely doesn't have an online identity, then question is just what identity you would want to assert. Really, a name - a human's given name - isn't particularly unique. If I had the name "Brian Cox", for example, I'd be entitled to assert it as an identity even if I wasn't one of the ["famous" Brian Coxes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brian_Cox) - but I might get mistaken for one of them by asserting just that. If I were to assert "Brian Cox, the footballer" that apparently wouldn't be much clearer. And if I were the well-known, musical physicist, I might be less ambiguous in identifying myself with my website of [apolloschildren.com](https://apolloschildren.com/). 

The network operation also has the benefit that the assertion can be automated and therefore doesn't require a lot of time-consuming and expensive human intervention. Bluesky can handle any number of identities automatically with their team of 20, but as soon as human verification of documents and paperwork is required, staffing needs rocket. So, if in-house verification via these sources is to come, it's a ways into the future. In the short term, then, anyone who wants a custom name they can't verify themselves will need to find another way to delegate that identity. I already mentioned LinkedIn and email providers as options, but other services exist (such as [keybase.io](https://keybase.io)) which are partway towards that providing that function.

Whether web-hosted or DNS-managed, the identifiers are just simple, short strings - for parsingphase.dev, it happens to be `did=did:plc:jsjgrbio76yz7zzch5fsasox`. By placing this, the identity manager (me, in this case) says "we assert that the only user allowed to use this name is the one with this internal ID (DID) at Bluesky'. This doesn't prove that `did=did:plc:jsjgrbio76yz7zzch5fsasox` *is* `parsingphase.dev`, for what it's worth - anyone could host that DID. But only the person who has that DID at Bluesky can do the other half of the validation - setting the value of `parsingphase.dev` in my Bluesky settings tells their system that "the only domain allowed to assert this DID is `parsingphase.dev". Each part of the verification confirms the relationship in one direction, combining to create a robust verification..


Whichever of the DNS or Web approaches you chose for now, the steps are relatively simple:
1. Chose the domain name that you want to use as your username
